I. Vocabulary:

1. right part：data pane
2. fileds grouped by data source table
3. dimension: fileds above the line, fileds contain qualitative and descriptive values( names, dates, geographic data, IDs)
4. measures: below each table horizontal line, fileds contain numeric, quantitative values can be aggregated using functions(sum and avg) 

1. dimensions control the level of aggregation of the measures in a visualisation, 
2. dimensions can be organized into hierarchies 
3. hide fileds that do not plan to use
4. group fileds by folder and create folders to organize them

1. drag fileds from the data pane to the shelves and cards to build dv
2. the right part: view
3. build vz per sheet, add sheet
4. combine sheets for dashboard and story
5. top of the workspace, use the toolbar to access commands, analysis, and navigation tools

II. Area Charts[columns: year; rows: Sum(sales)]

area chart is a line chart where the area between the line and the axis shaded with color 

area charts are used to represent accumulated totals over time and are the conventional way to display stacked lines 

most dimensions ~ discrete

most measures ~ continuous

1. modify the date level on the columns( 选择date的形式: 年，季，月，周等）
2. columns选date: date set as discrete or continuous(一般横轴dimension discreate, 纵轴 measures continuous)
3. rows 可选number type: eg. currency, decimal places 0
4. columns可选 axis titles, range, tickmark; 横轴上还有角标可以点选
5. command可以双选dimension and measure
6. context右键measure，创建level of detail expression:公式；可以改名，改变量名 

/**/可以写comments

1. 右键discrete dimension，edit aliases去修改labels of its members; set default properties for categorical filed，选sort by，则每次可以正确sort
2. 上层analysis - stack marks - on/ off 
3. 将变量放在color可以点亮色彩，color opacity 可选颜色透明度
4. rows放不同的维度，可以将数据放在不同level进行比较（columns月；rows 种类, sum(sales) )
5. 将变量放在tooltip可以展示marks card小窗口标，number type可选currency, decimal 0, 点击tooltip可以选择要展示的变量，其字体，或公式：insert变量名，选空allow selection by category 
6. date放在filter上，range of dates可以出可拖拉时间长度板；选择show filter则显示板
7. duplicate sheet; replace filed就直接拖过去可以


III. Bar Chart

bar charts to compare data across categories 

1. 新建sheet, 新命名sheet页
2. 可以command选中所需横纵轴变量，show me选择bar chart
3. 放到numerical axis的小图标上，选择sort：ascending, descending, original
4. profit ratio放在color shelf上，点击color, 选择opacity为80%，edit color，在palette中可以选择配色，hide advanced中选择start和end值为 -0.5,0.5，center
5. 选择label，show mark label，选择有color的变量名，format：percentage, decimal 1
6. 选择column变量，选消show header，将x轴的名字去掉
7. 选消tooltip，则浮窗小卡片不会再出现：tooltip, show tooltip选消
8. 如在map中使用bar chart，先来到map页，选择tooltip，先去掉tooltip，再insert需要的变量，insert bar chart 的sheets，选消allow selection by category


IV. Connect to Data

1. connect to data(files/connector), 选择upload a file
2. 拖sheet1放在view, 选择upgrade now, 显示前100行记录：可以将一些列的数据type变成想要的格式
3. 再拖sheet2放在view，edit relationship window，将primary key（共同都有的变量）连接。浮窗在横杠上，可以看到join 细节
4. 选择sheet1，自动数据读入 
5. 选择publish进行保存

